# Classes

Adding, removing, and changing elements is not the only thing jQuery is good at. You will often want to for example, add a class to a tag; or change a CSS property of an element.

We can create some really advanced visual effects to a web page by simply using JavaScript to add, remove, or change a class applied to an element. Because web browsers process and implement CSS instructions very quickly and efficiently, by simply adding a class to a tag could completely change the tag's appearance-even make it disappear from a page.

jQuery provides several functions for manipulating a tag's class attribute.

## addClass()

addClass() adds a specified class to an element. You can add the addClass() after a jQuery selection and pass the function a string, which represents the class name you wish to add. For example, to add the class externalLink to all links pointing outside your site, you can use this code:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]').addClass('externalLink');
```

This would take HTML like this:

```html
<a href = "http://www.oreilly.com/">
```

And change it to the following:

```html
<a href = "http://www.oreilly.com/" class = "externalLink">
```

Obviously, for this function to be of any use, you will need a CSS class style defined in the style sheet. If the tag already has a class applied to it, the addClass() function does not eliminate the old class; it just adds the new class as well.

In this <a href="archives/examples/addclass.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, a class (highlight) is added to the last paragraph.


## removeClass()

removeClass() is the opposite to addClass(). It removes a single class, multiple classes, or all classes from each element in the set of matched elements. For example, if you wanted to remove a class named highlight from a `<div>` with an ID of alertbox, you would do this:

```js
$('#alertbox').removeClass('highlight');
```

In this <a href="archives/examples/removeclass.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the class (blue) is removed from every second paragraph.


## toggleClass()

toggleClass() allows you to toggle a particular class - meaning it will add the class if it does not already exist, or remove the class if it does. Toggling is a popular way to show an element in either an on or off state.

In this <a href="archives/examples/toggleclass.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the class (highlight) is toggled on every paragraph. Initially, 3 paragraphs (first, third, and fourth) have just the class blue applied, and the second paragraph have both classes blue and highlight applied. If you click on any of the 3 paragraphs (first, third, and fourth), the class highlight is applied, if you click on any of them again, the highlight class is removed (i.e. toggles). Likewise if you click on the second paragraph, the class highlight is removed, and if you click on it again, it is applied (i.e. toggles).
