# Reading and Changing CSS Properties

jQuery's css() function lets you directly change CSS properties of an element, so instead of simply applying a class style to an element, you can immediately add a border or background colour, or set a width or positioning property. You can use the css() function in three ways:

### Get the current value of a CSS property

For example, say you want to find the background colour of a `<div>` tag with an ID of main:

```js
var bgColor = $('#main').css('background-color');
```

After this code runs, the variable bgColor will contain a string with the element's background colour value. In this <a href="archives/examples/cssget.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the values of the colour and font size for the h2 element are displayed.

### Set the CSS property for an element

To use the function in this way, you must supply two arguments to the function: the CSS property name and a value. For example, to change the font size for the <body> tag to 200%, you could do this:

```js
$('body').css('font-size', '200%');
```

To add a black, one pixel border around all paragraphs with a class of highlight:

```js
$('.highlight').css('border', '1px solid black');
```

### Change multiple CSS properties at once

If you want to change more than one CSS property on an element, you do not need to resort to multiple uses of the .css() function. As we saw previously, we can pass what is called an object literal to the .css() function. Think of an object literal as a list of property name/value pairs. After each property name, you insert a colon (:) followed by a value; each name/value pair is separated by a comma, and the whole lot is surrounded by braces {}.

For example:

```js
{
  'background-color' : '#FF0000',
  'border': '2px solid #FE0037'
}
```

To use an object literal with the css() function, just pass the object to the function like this:

```js
$('.highlight').css(
 {
  'background-color' : '#FF0000',
  'border': '2px solid #FE0037'
 }
 );
```

The opening round bracket ( marks the beginning of the .css() function; the opening curly bracket { marks the beginning of the object literal. The closing } marks the end of the object literal. The closing ) marks the end of the .css() function. The semicolon(;) marks the end of the statement.

In this <a href="archives/examples/csschange.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the values of the background colour and font size for the p element are changed.
