
# Variables

A variable is simply a place in the computer's memory to store information. All variables are referred to by the unique name you assigned to them.

## Variable names

- Variable names must begin with a letter, $, or the underscore(_).
- Variable names can contain only letters, numbers, $ and underscores(_).
- Do not use spaces in names.
- Names are case-sensitive, so **Age** and **age** are not the same.
- Do not use a reserved word.

## Data Types

JavaScript has the following types of data:

- **Numeric**: Basic numbers such as integers or floating point values.
- **String**: Just a series of letters and other symbols enclosed inside of quote marks.
- **Boolean**: true or false.
- **Object**: An object is a collection of properties. The properties can be any of the previously mentioned types, as well as other objects and functions.

**Notes**:

- In JavaScript, a variable without a value, has the value **undefined**. The data type is also **undefined**. For Example: var name; this variable is undefined and its' data type is undefined as no value has been assigned yet.
- In JavaScript null is "nothing". It is supposed to be something that doesn't exist. In JavaScript, the data type of null is an object.

## typeof operator

The **typeof** operator in JavaScript allows you to probe the data type of its operand as illustrated in the 
following <a href="archives/Class Files/example1.htm" target = "_blank">example</a>:

~~~
 var myvar=5
 alert(typeof(myvar)); //alerts "number"
~~~
