
# Creating Variables

You do not need to decide upon the type of data that the variable is going to hold when you declare it. 
JavaScript is a loosely typed language. That means you do not have to specify the data type of a variable when you declare it, 
and data types are converted automatically as needed during script execution. So, for example, you could define a variable as follows:
var answer = 42

And later, you could assign the same variable a string value, for example,
answer = "Thanks for all the fish..."

Use the **var** keyword before the variable name. As we have already seen, you do not have to give the variable a value either (it can
be undefined).

~~~
 var myname;
 myname="Henrik";
 document.write(myname);
~~~

This example would write "Henrik" in the document.

**Note**: When you want text to be stored in a variable you need to put the text in " ".
The reason is that JavaScript uses " " to tell the difference between text and variables.

## Example

In the following <a href="archives/Class Files/example2.htm" target = "_blank">example</a>, we illustrate how to assign a value to a variable and
output it to the document.

~~~
 <!DOCTYPE html>
 <html lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <title>My JavaScript Page</title>
 </head>
 <body>
 <script>
  var name;
  name="Fred Bloggs";
  document.write("Your name is " + myname);
 </script>
 </body>
 </html>
~~~

In the first line, the name "Fred Bloggs" is stored in the variable name. 

On the next line, the myname variable is written to the document.

The result is that **Your name is Fred Bloggs** will be written on the page.

**Note**: Combining strings is called **concatenation**, and you accomplish it with the **+** operator.