
# Global Methods

<dl>
<dt>
**isNaN(value)**</dt>
<dd>
This function returns true if its argument is not a number and false if it is numeric.</dd>
<dt>
**parseFloat(string)**</dt>
<dd>
This function parses a string, passed in as an argument, and returns it as a floating point number. 
The string is parsed from the start with the parser looking for the numbers 0 through 9, the signs + and -, decimal points
and exponents only. When any other character is encountered the parser stops and returns what it has already found. 
If the first character of the string does not belong to the valid set, **NaN** is returned.
</dd>
<dt>
**parseInt(string [, radix])**</dt>
<dd>
The string is parsed and its value as an integer returned. Once an invalid character is encountered the parsing stops and the 
function returns what it has already found. If the first character of the string is invalid, **NaN** is returned.
The function optionally takes a radix as its second argument, defaulting to base 10 if an alternative is not supplied.
</dd>
</dl>
Other alternatives are **Number** and **+** symbol, but these return **NaN** if anything other than a number, a single period (full stop) or a + or - sign are found in the string.

Note: **NaN** is a JavaScript Global Property which represents something which is not a number. 
Variables can hold different types of data in JavaScript, so  is why you need a way of knowing if a value is currently numeric or not.

See how the these methods work in the following <a href="archives/Class Files/example1.htm" target= "_blank">example</a>.
