# What is jQuery

jQuery is an open source JavaScript library that simplifies the interactions between an HTML document, or more precisely the Document Object Model (aka the DOM), and JavaScript. In plain words, jQuery makes Dynamic HTML (DHTML) dead easy. Specifically, jQuery simplifies HTML document traversing and manipulation, browser event handling, DOM animations, Ajax interactions, and cross-browser JavaScript development.

jQuery is an amazing JavaScript library that makes it easy to create wonderful web effects in just a few lines of code. jQuery achieves this goal by taking common, repetitive, tasks, stripping out all the unnecessary markup, and leaving them short, smart and understandable. jQuery also provides capabilities for developers to create plug-ins on top of the JavaScript library.

jQuery is not a language but it is a well written JavaScript code. As quoted on an official jQuery website, "it is a fast and concise JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, event handling, animating, and Ajax interactions for rapid web development."

The jQuery library contains the following features:

- HTML/DOM manipulation
- CSS manipulation
- HTML event methods
- Effects and animations
- AJAX
- Utilities

## Why jQuery

jQuery is very compact and well written JavaScript code that increases the productivity of the developer by enabling them to achieve critical User Interaction functionality by writing less code. Advantages of jQuery are:

- Improve the performance of the application.
- Develop most browser compatible web pages.
- Implement UI related critical functionality without writing hundreds of lines of codes.
- No need to learn fresh new syntaxes to use jQuery, knowing simple JavaScript syntax is enough.
- Simple and Cleaner code, no need to write several lines of codes to achieve complex functionality.

## JavaScript Libraries

Many JavaScript programs have to deal with the same set of Web page tasks again and again: selecting an element, adding new content, hiding and showing content, modifying a tag's attributes, determining the value of form fields, and making programs react to different user interactions. The details of these basic actions can turn out to be quite complicated - especially if you want the program to work in all major browsers. Fortunately, JavaScript libraries offer a way to leap-frog past many time consuming programming details.

A JavaScript library is simply a collection of JavaScript code that provides simple solutions to many of the mundane, day-to-day details of JavaScript. You can think of a library as a collection of prewritten JavaScript functions that you add to your Web page. These functions make it easy to complete common tasks.

We are going to use the popular jQuery library.
