# jQuery Selectors

The jQuery library harnesses the power of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) selectors to let us quickly and easily access elements or groups of elements in the Document Object Model (DOM). A jQuery Selector is a function which makes use of expressions to find out matching elements from a DOM based on the given criteria. Simply you can say, selectors are used to select one or more HTML elements using jQuery. Once an element is selected then we can perform various operations on that selected element.

## jQuery Selectors

jQuery selectors start with the dollar sign and parentheses - `$()`. $ is shorthand for jQuery. `$()` makes use of following three building blocks while selecting elements in a given document:

<table>
<tr>
<th style="width:10%; text-align:left;">Tag Name</th>
<td>Represents a tag name available in the DOM. For example $('p') selects all paragraphs in the document.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th style="width:10%; text-align:left;">Tag ID</th>
<td>Represents a tag available with the given ID in the DOM. For example $('#some-id') selects the single element in the document that has an ID of some-id.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th style="width:10%; text-align:left;">
Tag Class
</th>
<td>Represents a tag available with the given class in the DOM. For example $('.some-class') selects all elements in the document that have a class of some-class.
</td>
</tr>
</table>

## Examples

### Element selectors

You can select any page element by its tag name. For example: to select every `<a>` tag on the page, you'd write this: `var linkslist = $('a');`

In this <a href="archives/examples/selectortesttag.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, we see the paragraphs are highlighted (background colour has changed) because the elements with the `<p>`  tag are selected and modified.

```js
$(document).ready(function(){
  $('p').css('background-color','#ac9986');
});
```

### ID selectors

You can select any page element that has an ID applied to it using jQuery and a CSS ID selector. For example, say you have the following HTML in a Web page:

```html
<p id = 'message'>Special message</p>
```

To select the element using jQuery: `var messagePara = $('#message');` You have to use the CSS-syntax for defining an ID selector `('#message')`.

In this <a href="archives/examples/selectortestid.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, we see the second paragraph is highlighted (background colour has changed) because the element with the ID p2 is selected and modified.

```js
$(document).ready(function(){
  $("#p2").css("background-color", "yellow");
});
```

### Class selectors

You can select all page elements with the same class name. For example: to select every element on the page with the class name submenu, you'd write this: `var menus = $('.submenu')`;

In this <a href="archives/examples/selectortestclass.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, we see the first and third paragraphs are highlighted (background colour has changed) because the elements with the class friends are selected and modified.

```js
$(document).ready(function(){
  $('.friends').css('background-color','#ac9986');
});
```
