
# Object-based Array Functions 4

The **splice()** method is used to add, remove or replace elements anywhere in an array.

## Deleting items with splice()

To remove items from an array, the **splice()** command must specify where it should begin deleting 
(index number of first item to be deleted) and how many items it should delete.

~~~
<script>
  var arr = new Array(3);
  arr[0] = "Jane";
  arr[1] = "Tony";
  arr[2] = "Hilda";
  document.write(arr + "<br>");
  document.write(arr.splice(1,2) + "<br>");
  document.write(arr);
</script>
~~~

In this example we will create an array, and then remove the second and third element of the array. Note that this will also change the length of the array. 

The output of the code above will be:

**Jane,Tony,Hilda<br>
Tony,Hilda<br>
Jane**

## Adding items with splice()

To add items to an array, the splice() command must specify where the new items should be located, 
0 to indicate that you do not want to delete any items, then the list of items to be inserted: one or more values separated by commas.


~~~
<script>
  var arr = new Array(3);
  arr[0] = "Jane";
  arr[1] = "Tony";
  arr[2] = "Hilda";
  document.write(arr + "<br>");
  document.write(arr.splice(2,0, "Phil", "Marie") + "<br>");
  document.write(arr);
</script>~~~

In this example we will create an array, and then add 2 items before the last element of the array. 
Note that this will also change the length of the array. 

The output of the code above will be:

**
Jane,Tony,Hilda<br>
<br>
Jane,Tony,Phil,Marie,Hilda**

## Replacing items with splice()

We can add and delete elements from an array in a single operation. The process is the same as adding an item, but instead of specifying 0 for the second piece of information, you supply the number of items to be replaced. This is followed by the list of items that are replacing the deleted (replaced) items.

~~~
<script>
  var arr = new Array(3);
  arr[0] = "Jane";
  arr[1] = "Tony";
  arr[2] = "Hilda";
  document.write(arr + "<br>");
  document.write(arr.splice(1,2, "Phil", "Marie") + "<br>");
  document.write(arr);
</script>
~~~

In this example we will create an array, and then replace 2 items before the last element of the array. Note that this will also change the length of the array. 

The output of the code above will be: 

**
Jane,Tony,Hilda<br>
Tony,Hilda<br>
Jane,Phil,Marie**