# The animate() function

The .animate() method allows you to create some of your own effects and animations by changing CSS properties. You can animate any CSS property whose value can be represented as a number, e.g. height, width and font-size (but not those whose value would be a string e.g. font-family or text-transform).

The CSS properties are written using camelCase notation. For example, border-left-top-radius would become borderLeftTopRadius. The animate method can take three optional parameters, as shown here:

```js
.animate({
  //styles you want to change
}[,speed][,easing][,complete]);
```

1. **speed** indicates the duration of the animation in milliseconds. It can also take the keywords *slow* and *fast*.
2. **easing** can have two values: *linear* (the speed of the animation is uniform); or *swing* (speeds up in the middle of the transition, and is slower at the start and end). If no value is specified, swing is used by default.
3. **complete** is used to call a function that should run when the animation has finished. This is known as a callback function.

In this <a href="archives/examples/animate.html" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the .animate() method is used to gradually change the values of two CSS properties. Both of them have numerical values: opacity and padding-left.

`1`. All list items are selected and, when a user clicks on one of them, an anonymous function runs. Inside it, $(this) creates a new jQuery object holding the element the user clicked on. The .animate() method is then called on that jQuery object.

```js
$(function() {
  $('li').on('click', function() {
    $(this).animate({
      //styles to be changed
    });
  });
});
```

`2`. Inside the .animate() method, the opacity and paddingLeft are changed. The value of the paddingLeft property is increased by 80 pixels which makes it look like the text is sliding to the right as it fades out.

```js
$(function() {
  $('li').on('click', function() {
    $(this).animate({
      opacity: 0.0,
      paddingLeft: '+=80';
    });
  });
});
```

`3`. The .animate() method has two more parameters. The first is the speed of the animation in milliseconds (in this case, 500ms). The second is another anonymous function indicating what should happen when the animation finishes. When the animation has finished, the callback function removes that list item from the page using the .remove() method.

```js
$(function() {
  $('li').on('click', function() {
    $(this).animate({
      opacity: 0.0,
      paddingLeft: '+=80'
    }, 500, function() {
      $(this).remove();
    });
  });
});
```
