
# Introduction

Instead of just adding your JavaScript to the page and having the browser perform the tasks as soon as the script is rea
you might want your JavaScript to be performed only upon the detection of a certain event.

For example, if you had JavaScript code that changed the background colour of the page when the user clicked a button, 
then you would need to tell the browser, that the script should not be performed right away when loaded.

To keep the browser from performing a script as soon as it is loaded you need to write the script as a **function**.

JavaScript code written in functions will not be performed until you specifically ask for it. This way you gain 
complete control of the timing.

~~~
<script>
  function myfunction()
  {
    alert("Welcome to my world!!");
  }
</script>
</head>
<body>
<form name="myform">
<input type="button" value="Hit me" onclick="myfunction()">
</form>
</body>
~~~

Looking at the code, if the line: alert("Welcome to my world!!); had not been written within a function, it would simply be 
performed as soon as the line was loaded. 

But since we wrote it as a function, it is not performed until you hit the button.

The call of the function is in this line:
~~~
<input type="button" value="Click Here" onClick="myfunction()">
~~~

As you can see, we placed the button in a form and added the event **onClick="myfunction()"** to the properties of the button as can 
be seen in the following <a href="archives/Class Files/example1.html" target = "_blank">example</a>.

## Syntax

The general syntax for a function is: 
~~~
function functionname(variable1, variable2,..., variableX)
{ 
// Here goes the JavaScript lines for the function
}
~~~

The **{** and the **}** marks the start and end of the function.

A typical bug when entering JavaScript functions is to forget about the importance of capitals in JavaScript. 
The word function must be spelled exactly as function (i.e. lowercase). Function or FUNCTION would cause an error.

Furthermore, use of capitals matters in the name of the function as well. If you had a function called myfunction() it would cause 
an error if you referred to it as Myfunction(), MYFUNCTION() or MyFunction().