#Adding content

jQuery provides many functions for manipulating elements and content on a page, from simply replacing HTML, to precisely positioning new HTML in relation to a selected element, to completely removing tags and content from the page.

## .html()

To illustrate the `.html()` method we are going to work with the following HTML:

```html
<div id = "errors">
<h2>Errors</h2>
</div>
```

`.html()` works like the DOM's innerHTML property. It gets the html contents (innerHTML) of the first matched element. To retrieve the HTML currently inside the selection, just add .html() after the jQuery selection, as in the following <a href="archives/examples/content.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>:

```js
alert($('#errors').html());
```

This example produces `<h2>Errors</h2>`. When you use the html() function in this way, you can make a copy of the HTML inside a specific element.

If you supply a string as an argument to .html(), you can set the html contents of every matched element. For example: `$('#errors').html('<h3>More Errors</h3>');` This can be seen in the following <a href="archives/examples/content1.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>.

## .text()

text() returns the combined text contents of all matched elements as can be seen in the following example.
If you supply a string as an argument to .text(), you can set the text contents of all matched elements as you can see in the following <a href="archives/examples/content2a.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>.

Note: Any HTML tags that are passed to text() are encoded and displayed and not treated as tags

## .append()

append() adds HTML as the last child element of the selected element. The append() function is a great way to add an item to the end of a bulleted (`<ul>`) list or a numbered (`<ol>`) list.

As an <a href="archives/examples/content3.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, we will add a fruit list item to the end of an already existing list:

```js
$('#fruits').append('<li>Orange</li>');
```

## .prepend()

prepend() is just like append(), but adds HTML after the opening tag of the selected element. As an <a href="archives/examples/content4.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, we will add a fruit list item to the start of an already existing list: `$('#fruits').prepend('<li>Orange</li>');`

## before() and after()

If you want to add HTML just outside of a selection, either before the selected element's opening tag or directly after the element's closing tag, use the before() or after() functions. For example, it's common practice to check a text field in a form to make sure that the field is not empty when your visitor submits the form. Assume that the HTML for the field looks like the following before the form is submitted:

```html
<input type = "text" name ="username" id = "username">
```

Now suppose that when the visitor submits the form, this field is empty. You can write a program that checks the field and then adds an error message after the field. The following <a href="archives/examples/form.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a> adds the message after this field, and uses the .after() function as follows:

```js
$('username').after('<span class="error">User name required</span>');
```

This line of code makes the Web page show the error message, and the HTML component would look like:

```html
<input type = "text" name ="username" id = "username">
<span class="error">User name required</span>
```

The .before() function simply puts the new content before the selected element.
