# jQuery Filters

jQuery also provides a way to filter your selections based on certain characteristics. For example, the `:even` filter lets you select every even element in a collection of elements. In addition, you can find elements that contain particular tags, specific text, elements that are hidden from view, and even elements that do not match a particular selector. For Example, to find every row of a table, the jQuery selector would be as follows: `$('tr')`

To narrow down the search, find every even row of a table, the jQuery selector would be as follows: `$('tr:even')`

To use a filter, you add a colon followed by the filter's name after the main selector. In the example above, the main selector is `tr`, and the filter is `:even`. This code selects every even `<tr>` tag.

To narrow down a selection further, you may want to just find every even table row in a table with class name of striped. You could do that as follows: `$('.striped tr:even');`

Here is how filters work:

- `:even` and `:odd` select every other element in a group.

- `:first` and `:last` matches the first selected element and last selected element respectively.

- `:not()` finds elements that do not match a particular selector type. For example, say you want to select every `<a>` tag except ones with a class of navButton. You could do that as follows: `$('a:not(.navButton)');`

Another <a href="archives/examples/selectortestnot.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>:


```js
$('p:not(.friends)'); // Select all p tags except the paragraphs with class called friends.
```

You give the `:not()` function the name of the selector you wish to ignore. In the first example, navButton is a class selector, so this code translates to "not with the class of .navButton". You can use `:not()` with any of the jQuery filters and with most jQuery selectors. For example, to find every link that does not start with `http://`, you can write this: `$('a:not([href^=http://])');`

- `:has()` finds elements that contain another selector. For example, say you want to find all `<li>` tags, but only if they have an `<a>` tag inside them. You could do that as follows: `$('li:has(a)');`

Another example:

```js
$('div:has(p a)');
```

This selector would match all `<div>` elements that encapsulate `<a>` elements (anchors) within `<p>` elements (paragraphs).

- `:contains()` finds elements that contain specific text. For example, to find every link that says "Click Me!" you can create a jQuery object like this: `$('a:contains("Click Me!")');`

Another <a href="archives/examples/selectortestcontains.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>:

```js
$('p:contains("Donald")'); // Select all p tags that contain the word 'Donald'.
```

- `:hidden` locates elements that are hidden, which includes elements that either have the CSS display property set to none, elements that are hidden using jQuery's hide() function, or hidden form fields. For example, if you have hidden several `<div>` tags, you can find them and make them visible as follows: `$('div:hidden').show();`

- `:visible` is the opposite of hidden. It locates elements that are visible on the page.
