# Adding a Lightbox

One very popular technique for viewing images is dimming the Web page and displaying the larger image version of the thumbnail as if it were floating on top of the browser window. One well known version of this method is a JavaScript program called Lightbox: click to see an <a href="archives/examples/lightbox/index.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>. Lightbox is small javascript library used to overlay images on top of the current page.

jQuery lightBox is very easy to use, you just need to set up your Web page with links to the images you wish to display and attach .css and .js files to the page.

## Setting the LightBox up

1. In the `<head>` of the document, before the other `<link>` tag, we will add: `<link href="css/lightbox.css" rel="stylesheet">`. This file contains all of the styles used to format the background that lies over the Web page, the pop up image, and the photo caption text.

2. We will attach the Lightbox plugin JavaScript file immediately after the `<script>` tag that attaches the jquery file. `<script src="js/lightbox.min.js"></script>`

3. Look inside the images folder to find close.png, loading.gif, prev.png, and next.png. These files are used in lightbox.css.

## Executing the LightBox

Add a data-lightbox attribute to any image link to activate Lightbox. For the value of the attribute, use a unique name for each image. For example: `<a href="images/image-1.jpg" data-lightbox="image-1" data-title="My caption">image #1</a>`

**Optional:** Set the data-title attribute if you want to show a caption.

If you have a group of related images that you would like to combine into a set, use the same data-lightbox attribute value for all of the images. For example:

```html
<a href="images/image-2.jpg" data-lightbox="roadtrip">image #2</a>
<a href="images/image-3.jpg" data-lightbox="roadtrip">image #3</a>
<a href="images/image-4.jpg" data-lightbox="roadtrip">image #4</a>
```

## Changing the LightBox CSS property values

To use a different pointers/buttons/arrows, change the background property in the (lightbox.css file) to the following for **prev (.lb-nav a.lb-prev)**:

```
background: url(../images/lightbox-btn-prev.gif) left 48% no-repeat;
```

And the following for **next (.lb-nav a.lb-next)**:

```
background: url(../images/lightbox-btn-next.gif) right 48% no-repeat;
```

To permanently display the arrows (or other image), remove the properties (opacity, -webkit-transition, -moz-transition, -o-transition, and transition) from both the **prev** and **next** CSS rules.

## Adding options

We may add options to the lightbox plugin, as can be seen in the following <a href="archives/examples/lightbox/indexv2.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>. For example instead of stopping when we reach the maximum number of images, the lightbox continues to iterate.

All options can be found at the following site: <a href="http://lokeshdhakar.com/projects/lightbox2/#options" target = "_blank">`http://lokeshdhakar.com/projects/lightbox2/#options`</a>

```js
<script>
	lightbox.option({
		'fadeDuration':1200,
		'imageFadeDuration':2400,
		'wrapAround': true
	})
</script>
```
