# Form Validation

On most forms that you see on web sites, most of the fields are mandatory (i.e the user/visitor must enter information). As well as being mandatory, the data entered must be valid for the particular field it is entered into to. For example, an email address must include the @ and . symbols.

Form validation requires checking the form fields before the form is submitted to make sure required information is supplied and that information is properly formatted. The form's submit event - triggered when the visitor clicks a submit button is usually where validation occurs. If all data entered is correct, the form information is sent to the Web server. If there is a problem, the script stops the submission process and displays errors on the page.

Checks need to be made to ensure that fields are not empty, at least one radio button is selected, email addresses are valid, etc. Recall from our earlier work with forms that there are attributes we can add to form fields to ensure that:

- They are filled out.
- They match the required pattern.

## required
The required attribute is a boolean attribute. When present, it specifies that an input field must be filled out before submitting the form.

## pattern
The pattern attribute specifies a regular expression that the `<input>` element's value is checked against.

Examples

- `pattern="[a-zA-Z0-9]"`: All alphanumeric characters.
- `pattern="[A-Za-z]{3}"`: Three letter code.
- `pattern = "[A-Z][a-z]+( [A-Z][a-z]+)*"`: Name (with optional second name, and more names...).
- `pattern ="\S{6,}`: At least 6 characters (excluding space, tab, newline, carriage return, form feed).
- `pattern="\d{4,8}"`: Matches at least 4 digits but no more than 8 digits
- `pattern = "^(\(\d{3}\)|\d{3})-?\d{6}$"`: Telephone number (9 digits), which allows for brackets and hyphens(-).
- `pattern="https?://[a-zA-Z]{3}\.[a-zA-Z0-9]{2,}\.[a-zA-Z0-9]{2,}"`: URL
- `pattern = "^[_a-z0-9-]+(\.[_a-z0-9-]+)*@[a-z0-9-]+(\.[a-z0-9-]+)*(\.[a-z]{2,4})$"`: Email address
- `pattern="(?=.*\d)(?=.*[a-z])(?=.*[A-Z])\w{6,}"`: Password which is at least 6 characters in length and includes at least one capital letter and at least one digit.

## Regular Expressions
A regular expression, or regex for short, is a pattern describing a certain amount of text. The most basic regular expression consists of a single literal character, such as [a]. It matches the first occurrence of that character in the string.

### Character Class
A character class matches only one out of several characters. Examples include [aeiou] or [0-9] or [A-Za-z].

### Shorthand Character classes
Shorthand Character classes include \d matches a single character that is a digit; \w matches a "word character" (alphanumeric characters plus underscore); and \s matches a whitespace character (includes tabs and line breaks).

### Anchors
Anchors do not match any characters. They match a position.^ matches at the start of the string, and $ matches at the end of the string. \b matches at a word boundary.

### Alternation
Alternation is the regular expression equivalent of "or". cat|dog matches cat in About cats and dogs. You can add as many alternatives as you want, for example cat|dog|mouse|fish. Alternation has the lowest precedence of all regex operators. cat|dog food matches cat or dog food. To create a regex that matches cat food or dog food, you need to group the alternatives, like as follows: (cat|dog) food.

### Repetition

- The question mark(?) makes the preceding token in the regular expression optional. For example colou?r matches colour or color.
- The asterisk or star ( * ) tells the engine to attempt to match the preceding token zero or more times.
- The plus(+) tells the engine to attempt to match the preceding token once or more.
- `<[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9]*>` matches an HTML tag without any attributes.
- Use curly braces({}) to specify a specific amount of repetition. Use \[1-9][0-9]{3} to match a number between 1000 and 9999.

A good website on Regular Expressions is <a href="http://www.regular-expressions.info/quickstart.html" target = "_ blank">Regular Expressions Quick Start</a>

A good website for obtaining patterns is <a href="http://html5pattern.com/" target = "_ blank">HTML5 Pattern</a>

## title
The value of the title attribute is used to display the validation error message.

## placeholder
The placeholder attribute specifies a short hint that describes the expected value of an input field (e.g. placeholder="`http://example.com`"). The hint is displayed in the input field when it is empty, and disappears when the field gets focus.

Look at the following <a href="archives/examples/formexample3.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, which includes a validation pattern for each form element.
