# HTML5 Validation plugin

h5Validate is a jQuery plugin that understands HTML5 forms and knows how to validate them, even in browsers that don’t yet support HTML5. In browsers that do support HTML5, h5Validate adds some much-needed features, such as the ability to customize the user interface when an input fails validation.

Add the jquery.h5validate.js file to your JavaScript(js) folder, and then include the file in your .htm file.

You can invoke the plugin as follows:

```js
$(document).ready(function () {
  $('form').h5Validate();
});
```

To add colour to the elements causing the error add an errorClass.

```js
$(document).ready(function () {
  $('form').h5Validate({errorClass:'validationError' });
});
```

The corresponding style may be:

```css
.validationError {
  color: white !important;
  background-color:gray !important;
}
```

To display the title attribute values as error messages on the web page, we assign the data-h5-errorid attribute in the input field and we add a corresponding 
error div. Error divs are hidden in the HTML and h5Validate shows them when the corresponding field is marked invalid. The data-h5-errorid attribute is assigned a value and that value is the id of the error div. In h5Validate, you tell the client side code where to find the error div with the data-h5-errorid attribute. When the input field is marked invalid by the browser, the value of the title attribute is displayed in the error div. We attach a class also to style the error message.

```html
<div class ="form-group row">
   <label for="name" class="col-sm-3 col-form-label">Name</label>
   <div class="col-sm-9">
     <input type="text" class="form-control" name="name"  id="name" data-h5-errorid="invalid-name" autofocus required 
                pattern = "[A-Z][a-z]+( [A-Z][a-z]+)?"
                title="Please enter a name (Surname optional) with First Letter capitalised">
     <div id="invalid-name" class="ui-state-error"></div>
    </div>
</div>
```

The corresponding style may be:

```css
.ui-state-error {
  font-size: 1em;
  color: gray;
  font-weight: bold;
  background-color:transparent;
  border-color:transparent;
}
```

Look at the following <a href="archives/examples/formexample4.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, which includes a validation pattern for each form element and how the error messaging has improved.
