#Type of Events

## Mouse Events

- **.click**:	The click fires after you click and release the mouse button.
- **.dblclick**:	The dblclick fires after you click and release the mouse button twice.
- **.mousedown**:	The mousedown fires after you press the mouse button down.
- **.mouseup**:	The mouseup fires after you release the mouse button.
- **.mouseenter**:	The mouseenter fires after you move the mouse over a page element.
- **.mouseover**:	The mouseover fires after you move the mouse over a page element. It works on child elements also.
- **.mouseleave**:	The mouseleave fires after you move the mouse off a page element.
- **.mouseout**:	The mouseout fires after you move the mouse off a page element. It works on child elements also.
- **.mousemove**:	The mousemove fires after you move the mouse.

## Document/Window Events

- **.load**:	The load fires when the web browser finishes downloading all of a web page's files.
- **.resize**:	The resize fires when you resize the browser window by clicking the maximise button, or by dragging the browser's resize handle.
- **.scroll**:	The scroll fires when you drag the scroll bar, or use the keyboard (up/down/home/end) keys, or mouse scroll wheel to scroll a web page. If the web page has no scroll bars then no scroll event is ever triggered.
- **.unload**:	The unload fires when you click a link to go to another page, close a browser tab, or close a browser window.

## Form Events

- **.submit**:	The submit fires whenever a visitor submits a form.
- **.reset**:	The reset fires whenever a visitor clicks the reset button on a form.
- **.change**:	The change fires whenever a form field value or status changes.
- **.focus**:	The focus fires when you click into or select a form element.
- **.blur**:	The blur fires when you exit a currently focused form element.
