# Anonymous Functions

As stated previously, jQuery functions have automatic loops built in. For example, to hide all external referenced links in a web page the following would suffice: `$('a[href^="http://"]').hide();`

However, what if you wanted to retrieve the URL for each selected link and do something with it (such as display it somewhere else on the page) - how do we achieve this? The problem is that there is a few tasks to complete, but the solution is rather simple. jQuery does not have a built-in function that performs all the tasks you require, but we can use the each() function:

### each()

```js
$('selector').each();
```

To use the each() function, you pass a special kind of argument to it - an anonymous function. The anonymous function is simply a function containing the steps that you wish to perform on each selected element. It is called anonymous because you don't give it a name.

Here is how you incorporate an anonymous function as part of the each() function:

```js
$('selector').each(
  function() {
   //code goes here
  }
);
```

The opening ( marks the beginning of the .each() function, the opening { marks the beginning of the anonymous function. The closing } marks the end of the anonymous function . The closing ) marks the end of the each() function, while the semicolon(;) marks the end of the statement.

You would normally see it written on one line as follows:

```js
$('selector').each(function() {
   //code goes here
});
```

The each() function works like a loop - meaning the instructions inside the anonymous function will run once for each element that you have retrieved. For example, say you have 10 images on a page and add the following JavaScript code:

```js
$('img').each(function() {
     alert('Image found');
});
```

Ten alert dialog boxes will appear.

### `$(this)`

When using the each() function, you will want to access or set attributes of each element - for example, to find the URL for each external link. To access the current element through the loop, you use a special keyword called **this**. The this keyword refers to whatever element is calling the anonymous function. So the first time through the loop this refers to the first element in the jQuery selection, while the second time through the loop, this refers to the second element. We write this as `$(this)`.

In this <a href="archives/examples/anon.htm" target = "_ blank">example</a>, the URL for each external link is extracted and added to an unordered list at the end of the web page.

The first step is to get a list of all links pointing outside your site. You can do so using an attribute selector:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]')
```

Now to loop through each link, we add the each() function:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]').each()
```

Then add an anonymous function:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]').each(function() {

});
```

The first step in an anonymous function is to retrieve the URL for the link. Since each link has a different URL, you must access the current element each time through the loop. The $(this) keyword lets you do just that:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]').each(function() {
      var extLink = $(this).attr('href');
});
```

This stores the value of the current element's href property in a variable called extLink. Each time through the loop, $(this) refers to a different link on the page, so each time through the loop, the extLink variable changes.

After that, it is just a matter of appending a new list item to the `<ul>` tag, like follows:

```js
$('a[href^="http://"]').each(function() {
      var extLink = $(this).attr('href');
      $('#bibList').append('<li>' + extLink + '</li>');
});
```
