# Selecting form elements

jQuery has selectors that are designed specifically to work with forms. However, because of the way jQuery searches for elements, these selectors are not always the quickest way to select elements on a page. The jQuery selectors are shown here, and other options for faster performance are noted.

### Selectors for form elements

- **:button**: `<button>` and `<input>` elements whose type attribute has a value of button.
- **:checkbox**: `<input>` elements whose type attribute has a value of checkbox. Note that you get better performance with $('[type="checkbox"]').
- **:checked**: Checked elements from checkboxes and radio buttons (see :selected for select boxes)
- **:disabled**: All elements that have been disabled
- **:enabled**: All elements that are enabled
- **:focus**: Element that currently has focus. Note that you get better performance with $(document.activeElement).
- **:file**: All elements that are file inputs.
- **:image**: All image inputs. Note that you get better performance using $('[type="image"]').
- **:input**: All `<button>`, `<input>`, `<select>` and `<textarea>` elements.
- **:password**: All password inputs. Note that you get better performance using $('[type="password"]').
- **:radio**: All radio inputs. To select a group of radio buttons, you can use $('input[name="gender"]:radio').
- **:reset**: All inputs that are reset buttons.
- **:selected**: All elements that are selected.
- **:submit**: `<button>` and `<input>` elements whose type attribute has a value of submit. Note that you get better performance using $('[type="submit"]').
- **:text**: Selects `<input>` elements with a type attribute whose value is text, or whose type attribute is not present. You will likely get better performance from ('input:text').
